# Adtech's AI Appetite
This GitHub repo holds the analysis code and sanitized data (pending approval) from a survey executed by LiveRamp investigating AI perceptions across employees and customers. This work was used by LiveRamp for internal product development and business strategy purposes in regards to adopting AI in our product suite and tech stack. This work is made public, in conjunction with a broader write up, to serve as a case study to other B2B SaaS businesses navigating the same complexities of AI adoption. Below are relevant excerpts from our paper titled Adtech’s "_AI Appetite: A Case Study in Advertisers’ Perceptions and Concerns of AI Integration_." 

## 4.3 Correlation Analysis 
### 4.3.1. Data Preprocessing
To analyze the correlation between AI concern and technical proficiency or AI concern and prior AI exposure, we identified relevant survey questions to use in creating our hypothesis variables: ai_perception, employee_status, tech_proficiency, and ai_experience. We mapped all categorical survey responses (i.e. job function: data scientist, marketer) into these numerical, ordinal variables. We also encoded the employee_status, tech_proficiency, and ai_experience variables to be in line with our hypothesis for its respective impact on ai_perception for ease of interpretation during correlation analysis. Meaning lower values across any of those variables we hypothesize to correlate with a lower value ai_perception (i.e. negative attitude, concern), while higher values we hypothesize will correlate with a higher ai_perception value (i.e. positive attitude, acceptance).

For ai_perception, there were a few questions relevant to representing our respondents’ level of AI concern and willingness to adopt AI:
AI_CONCERN: How concerned are you, if at all, about the use of AI in LiveRamp's products? 
AI_BENEFIT: Do you agree or disagree that the benefits of AI being used in LiveRamp outweigh the potential risks?
AI_RISK: Do you agree or disagree that the risks of AI being used in LiveRamp outweigh the potential benefits?
AI_COMFORT: How comfortable or uncomfortable are you with the idea of AI making decisions within customers' LiveRamp accounts to improve their user experience?

Each of the above questions were on a 5 point agreement scale and some data preprocessing was done to appropriately recode the response values from our survey tool to range from 1 (representing more concern towards AI) to 5 (representing more willingness to adopt).   

There were two attributes we captured in our survey that could serve as useful proxies to our variable tech_proficiency: job function and LiveRamp product usage. For both of these questions, we used our subject matter expertise and knowledge to map the survey responses to a technical proficiency score ranging from 0 (less technical) to 2 (highly technical). For our question on job function (i.e. "Which one of these options best describes your primary role or responsibilities?"), we used our knowledge of the technical requirements of each job to inform the technical proficiency score we imputed for that selection. For instance, a data scientist was assigned a score of 2 since their job requires coding, data analysis, etc. while a marketer was assigned 0 since their job is less likely to interface with these types of technical elements. For our question on LiveRamp product usage (i.e. “ “), we used our knowledge of the technical expertise needed to engage with each product to inform the score we imputed for that selection. For instance, our Clean Room product is meant for data analysis and building SQL queries, so users of that product were assigned a score of 2. Our Connect product on the other hand is all UI based and meant to serve marketers trying to build advertising segments, so users of this product were assigned a score of 0.   

For our ai_experience variable, we used our survey question on past AI tool usage (i.e. “”) as a proxy and mapped the categorical responses to a score with the same scale as our tech_proficiency variable, where 0 denotes little to no experience with AI tools and 2 denotes more experience with AI tools. Those who responded that they have not worked with any AI tools were assigned a score of 0. Those who responded that they have used more mainstream AI tools like ChatGPT (which 82% of our respondents have used), DALLE, or Midjourney were given a score of 1. And those who had selected less mainstream tools like Bard or MedLM were given a score of 2. We reasoned that interactions with less popular and easily accessible AI tools hinted at a higher AI exposure and perhaps more AI experience. 

### 4.3.2. Data Analysis Results
We employed Spearman's rank correlation coefficient to assess the strength and direction of monotonic relationships between variables. We used Spearman's correlation since it is robust to non-normality and works better with ordinal data like our 5 point agreement responses for our ai_perception variable, our employee_status variable, and the [0,2] scales for tech_proficiency and ai_experience. The correlation analysis revealed the following as statistically significant:
* `AI_EXPERIENCE` and `AI_CONCERN`: Spearman's ρ = 0.1072, p = 0.0273
The correlation between experience with AI tools and levels of AI concern was statistically significant. The positive correlation coefficient signifies that as AI experience increases the concern in AI decreases (due to the way this variable was coded, lower values signify more concern while higher values signify less). This finding contradicts the null hypothesis and provides evidence in support of the alternative hypothesis, indicating that there is indeed a correlation between these two variables. However, the correlation is very weak or negligible.
* `AI_EXPERIENCE` and `AI_BENEFIT`: Spearman's ρ = 0.2076, p < 0.001.
The correlation between respondent’s experience with AI tools and their agreement that AI’s benefits outweigh the risks were statistically significant. The positive correlation coefficient signifies that as AI experience increases respondents’ agreement statement increases. This finding contradicts the null hypothesis and provides evidence in support of the alternative hypothesis, indicating that there is indeed a correlation between these two variables. Experimenting with how the ai_experience variable was encoded also showed interesting, statistically significant results. Specifically, if ai_experience was encoded to be only 2 classes, where 0 indicates no experience with AI tools and 1 indicates some experience with any AI tool, the correlation coefficient increased (ρ = 0.2530). With either encoding, ai_experience had the highest correlation coefficient with one of our perception variables and the lowest p-value across all pairings. The correlation, however, is still considered weak. 
* `TECH_PROFICIENCY` and `AI_BENEFIT`: Spearman's ρ = 0.1119, p = 0.0288.
The correlation between respondent’s technical proficiency (specifically encoded by the job function question) and their agreement to the statement AI’s benefits outweigh the risks were statistically significant. The positive correlation coefficient signifies as technical proficiency increases, belief that AI’s benefits outweigh their risks increases as well. This finding contradicts the null hypothesis and provides evidence in support of the alternative hypothesis, indicating that there is indeed a correlation between these two variables. However, the correlation is very weak or negligible.
* `EMPLOYEE_STATUS` and   AI_RISK`: ρ = 0.1731, p = 0.0085.
The correlation between respondents’ employee status and their disagreement to the statement “AI’s potential risks outweigh the benefits” were statistically significant. The positive correlation coefficient signifies that as inside knowledge of LiveRamp increases, disbelief that AI’s risks outweigh its benefits increases as well. In other words, there is a correlation between employee status and AI perception, specifically that employees are more likely to have a positive perception of AI while customers are more likely to have a negative perception of AI. This finding contradicts the null hypothesis and provides evidence in support of alternative hypothesis X, indicating that there is indeed a correlation between these two variables. However, the correlation is very weak.
* `EMPLOYEE_STATUS` and `AI_BENEFIT`: ρ = 0.1339, p = 0.0062.
This correlation is very similar to the one above as the ai_benefit and ai_risk variables corresponding to the same question, asked twice in the survey in a reversed/inverted way to limit bias and validate the results. The correlation between the respondent being an employee/customer and their AI perception, specifically around believing the benefits of AI outweigh the risks was statistically significant (p < 0.05). The positive correlation coefficient suggests that as inside knowledge of LiveRamp increases the agreement with the statement of AI’s benefits outweighing its risks increases as well. In other words, employees are more likely to give AI’s benefits more weight while customers are more likely to give AI’s risks more weight. This finding contradicts the null hypothesis and provides evidence in support of the alternative hypothesis, but indicates a very weak to negligible correlation effect. 
